.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" apriboot.1: apriboot man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-7 John Elliott
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
.\" along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA
.\"
.\" Author contact information:
.\" John Elliott: email: jce@seasip.demon.co.uk
.\"
.TH apriboot 1 "23 January 2008" "Version 1.2.1" "Emulators"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
apriboot - rewrite disc boot sector, converting between Apricot and PCDOS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B apriboot
.RI [ "-format FORMAT" ]
.RI [ "-type TYPE" ]
.RI [ "-side SIDE" ]
.RI [ "-comp COMP" ]
.RI [ "-retry COUNT" ]
.RI [ "-pcdos" ]
.RI [ "-apricot" ]
.I DISKIMAGE
.RI [ DSKIMAGE ... ]
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Apriboot rewrites the boot sector of the selected disc (or image), 
converting it between standard PCDOS format and the format used by 
the Apricot PC / Xi / F-series computers.

.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -type TYPE
Determines which driver is to be used.
.TP
.B -retry COUNT
Set the number of times to attempt to read the disc in case of error.

.TP
.B -comp COMP
Select the compression method used on the source disc image file (has no
effect when reading a floppy disc).
.TP
.B -side SIDE
Determines which side (0 or 1) of the disc (image) is to be identified.

.TP
.B -format FORMAT
Selects a fixed format. Should not be necessary.

.TP
.B -apricot
Forces the program to convert to Apricot format; if the boot sector is
already in Apricot format, does nothing.

.TP
.B -pcdos
Forces the program to convert to PCDOS format; if the boot sector is
already in PCDOS format, does nothing. If neither 
.B -pcdos 
nor
.B -apricot
is supplied, the boot sector will be set to the opposite of whatever
is currently in use.

.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
dsktrans(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
