.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" libdskrc.5: libdskrc man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2005 Darren Salt
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
.\" along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA
.\"
.\" Author contact information:
.\" John Elliott: email: jce@seasip.demon.co.uk
.\"
.TH libdskrc 5 "20 January 2006" "Version 1.2.1" "Emulators"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
libdskrc - Custom format definitions for LibDSK programs
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PD 0
.LP
The 
.I libdskrc
file contains definitions of disk 
geometries, which can be used by the LibDsk utilities 
.I dsktrans(1)
, 
.I dskid(1)
and 
.I dskform(1)
. 
.LP 
The file consists of one or more sections, each describing one disk
layout. Each section begins with the format name in square brackets, and 
continues until the next section begins. Within each section are one or more 
entries of the form

.LP
.I variable 
= 
.I value

.LP 
Anything after a semicolon or hash  
character is treated as a comment and ignored. Blank lines are 
also ignored.
 
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH PARAMETERS

.LP 
For each geometry, the entries listed below can be present. If not 
all the values are present, LibDsk will use default values from its
"pcw180" format (40 tracks, 9 sectors, single-sided, MFM).

.TP
.B description = DESC
The description of the format as shown by (for example) dskform --help.

.TP
.B sides = TREATMENT
How a double-sided disk is handled. This can either be 
.B alt 
(sides alternate -- used by most PC-hosted operating systems), 
.B outback 
(use side 0 tracks 0-79, then side 1 tracks 79-0 -- used by 144FEAT 
CP/M disks), or 
.B outout
(use side 0 tracks 0-79, then side 1 tracks 0-79 -- used by some Acorn 
formats). If the disk is single-sided, this parameter can be omitted.

.TP 
.B cylinders = COUNT
Sets the number of cylinders (usually 40 or 80). 

.TP 
.B heads = COUNT
Sets the number of heads (usually 1 or 2 for single- or double-sided). 

.TP
.B sectors = COUNT
Sets the number of sectors per track.

.TP
.B secbase = NUMBER 
Sets the first sector number on a track. Usually 1; some Acorn formats use 0.

.TP
.B secsize = COUNT
Sets the size of a sector in bytes. This should be a power of 2.

.TP 
.B datarate = VALUE
Sets the rate at which the disk should be accessed. This is one of 
.B HD
(1.4Mb or 1.2Mb), 
DD (360k or 720k disc in 1.2Mb drive),
.B SD
(360k or 720k disc in 1.4Mb, 720k or 360k drive),
.B ED
(2.8Mb).

.TP 
.B rwgap = VALUE
Set the read/write gap.

.TP 
.B fmtgap = VALUE
Set the format gap.

.TP 
.B fm = Y or N 
Set the recording mode. 
.B Y 
for FM, 
.B N 
for MFM. 

.TP 
.B multitrack = Y or N 
Set multitrack mode; this only affects attempts to read normal data from
tracks containing deleted data (or vice versa). \fBY\fR for yes, \fBN\fR for 
no.

.TP 
.B skipdeleted = Y or N 
Skip deleted data when searching for non-deleted data (or vice versa).
\fBY\fR for yes, \fBN\fR for no.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI$HOME/.libdskrc\fR
User-specified format list.

.TP
\fI/usr/local/share/LibDsk/libdskrc\fR
System-wide format list.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.I dsktrans(1)
,
.I dskform(1)
,
.I dskid(1)
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
