.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\"
.\" md3serial.1: md3serial man page
.\" Copyright (c) 2002  John Elliott
.\"
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
.\" under the terms of the GNU Library General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
.\" your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
.\" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU Library
.\" General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public License
.\" along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation,
.\" Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA
.\"
.\" Author contact information:
.\" John Elliott: email: jce@seasip.demon.co.uk
.\"
.TH md3serial 1 "23 January 2008" "Version 1.2.1" "Emulators"
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH NAME
md3serial - view or change serial number on MicroDesign discs.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
.B md3serial
.RI [ "-serial SERIAL" ]
.RI [ "-format FORMAT" ]
.RI [ "-type TYPE" ]
.RI [ "-side SIDE" ]
.RI [ "-comp COMP" ]
.I DISKIMAGE
.P
.PD 1
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
Md3serial allows the serial number on program discs distributed by Creative
Technology (or image files made from such discs) to be viewed or changed.

.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -serial SERIAL
Write a new serial number to the disc (up to 7 characters). If this is not
present the existing serial number remains unchanged.
.TP
.B -type TYPE
Determines which driver is to be used.
.RS
.TP 8
.B auto
Select according to the disc image file. This is the default.
.TP
.B dsk
Use the DSK (CPCEmu format) image driver.
.TP
.B edsk
Use the extended version of the DSK format.
.TP
.B floppy
Use the floppy driver.
.TP
.B myz80
Use the hard disk (MYZ80 format) image driver.
(This format cannot be autodetected.)
.TP
.B cfi
Use the CFI (DOS fdcopy format) image driver.
(This format cannot be autodetected.)
.TP
.B raw
Use the raw driver.
.RE

.TP
.B -comp COMP
Select the compression method used on the source disc image file (has no
effect when reading a floppy disc).
.RS
.TP 8
.B auto
Detect from the first few bytes of the file. This is the default.
.TP
.B sq
Huffman coded (SQ / USQ).
.TP
.B gz
Gzipped (gzip / gunzip).
.TP
.B bz2
Burrows-Wheeler compressed (bzip2 / bunzip2).
.RE

.TP
.B -side SIDE
Determines which side (0 or 1) of the disc (image) is to be identified.

.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.SH LEGAL NOTES
The authors of MicroDesign have placed it in the public domain
and explicitly given permission for the copy-protection system to be reverse-
engineered.
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH BUGS
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\".SH SEE ALSO
.\"
.\"------------------------------------------------------------------
.\"
.\" `AUTHOR' here is deliberate...
.\"
.SH AUTHOR
John Elliott <jce@seasip.demon.co.uk>.
